Microchip (Atmel) AT91
======================

The Microchip (former Atmel) AT91 architecure has very good support within
barebox.
Most boards today have their description in their board files, but
boards are slowly migrating to use DT.
Likewise most boards are not yet migrated to multi image support, but
this is also ongoing.

The boot process of the AT91 CPU's is a two step process.
The first step is named the bootstrap and at91bootstrap
is often used (https://github.com/linux4sam/at91bootstrap).
barebox supports bootstrapping some at91 boards as documented
in the following.

The bootstrap program are loaded by a boot program and can be loaded
from DataFlash, NAND Flash, SD Card or via USB.
The bootstrap program do the low-level configuration of the
processor and then load and execute barebox.

AT91 boards
-----------
Newer boards can be built with the ``at91_multi_defconfig``:

.. code-block:: sh

  make ARCH=arm at91_multi_defconfig

The resulting images will be placed under ``images/``:

::

  barebox-at91sam9x5ek.img
  barebox-at91sam9263ek.img
  barebox-microchip-ksz9477-evb.img
  barebox-microchip-ksz9477-evb-xload-mmc.img
  barebox-microchip-sama5d3-eds.img
  barebox-microchip-sama5d3-eds-xload-mmc.img
  barebox-sama5d3-xplained.img
  barebox-sama5d3-xplained-xload-mmc.img
  barebox-sama5d27-som1-ek.img
  barebox-sama5d27-som1-ek-xload-mmc.img
  barebox-groboards-sama5d27-giantboard.img
  barebox-groboards-sama5d27-giantboard-xload-mmc.img
  barebox-skov-arm9cpu.img

Older supported boards have yet to be migrated to multi-image and device tree.
The majority of these have a short entry here.
For each board defconfig file(s) are noted but barebox may include additional
defconfig files and may also include boards not included in the following.

.. toctree::
  :glob:
  :maxdepth: 1

  at91/*

TODO
----
This is a list of AT91 specific TODO items, listed in no particular order.

* Update remaining boards to DT
* Update remaing boards to support multi image boot
* Introduce defaultenv2 for all boards
* Add pwm driver (required to support backlight)
