TI K3 based boards
==================

The TI K3 is a line of 64-bit ARM SoCs.

The boot process of the TI K3 SoCs is a two step process. The first stage boot loader
is loaded by the ROM code and executed on a Cortex-R5 processor. The code on this
processor is responsible for setting up the initial clocks, power domains and DRAM.
It then loads the binaries for the A53 cores into DRAM and starts the A53 core. From
this point on the Cortex-R5 processor is used as a system controller which controls
clocks and power domains of the SoC.

Prerequisites
-------------

There are several binary blobs required for building barebox for TI K3 SoCs. Find them
in git://git.ti.com/processor-firmware/ti-linux-firmware.git. The repository is assumed
to be checked out at ``firmware/ti-linux-firmware``. Alternatively the barebox repository
has a ti-linux-firmware submodule which checks out at the correct place. The K3 SoCs boot
from a FAT partition on SD/eMMC cards. During the next steps the files are copied to
``$TI_BOOT``. This is assumed to be an empty directory. After the build process copy its
contents to a FAT filesystem on an SD/eMMC card.

The Cortex-R5 is a 32-bit processors whereas the Cortex-A53 are 64-bit processors, so
both 32-bit and 64-bit toolchains are needed::

  export CROSS_COMPILE_32=arm-linux-gnueabihf-
  export CROSS_COMPILE_64=aarch64-v8a-linux-gnu-

Building barebox for the Cortex-R5 processor
--------------------------------------------

The following assumes barebox is built for a BeaglePlay board. The exact filenames
need to be adjusted for other boards.

There's a single ``k3-r5_defconfig`` for all K3 boards. This builds the boot images
for the Cortex-R5 processors::

  export ARCH=arm CROSS_COMPILE=$CROSS_COMPILE_32
  make k3-r5_defconfig
  make
  cp images/barebox-beagleplay-r5.img $TI_BOOT/tiboot3.bin

Building barebox for the Cortex-A53 processors
----------------------------------------------

The BeaglePlay image is built as part of the ``multi_v8_defconfig``::

  export ARCH=arm CROSS_COMPILE=CROSS_COMPILE_64
  make multi_v8_defconfig
  make
  cp images/barebox-beagleplay.img $TI_BOOT/barebox.bin

Building TF-A
-------------

The Arm Trusted Firmware is built from https://github.com/ARM-software/arm-trusted-firmware.git::

  make CROSS_COMPILE=$CROSS_COMPILE_64 ARCH=aarch64 PLAT=k3 SPD=opteed \
        TARGET_BOARD=lite
  cp build/k3/lite/release/bl31.bin $TI_BOOT/bl31.bin

Bulding OP-TEE
--------------

OP-TEE is built from https://github.com/OP-TEE/optee_os.git::

  make CROSS_COMPILE64=$CC64 CFG_ARM64_core=y CFG_WITH_SOFTWARE_PRNG=y \
        PLATFORM=k3-am62x
  cp out/arm-plat-k3/core/tee-raw.bin $TI_BOOT/optee.bin

OP-TEE is optional. barebox will continue without ``optee.bin`` when the file
does not exist.

Combining binaries into a FIP image
-----------------------------------

The files have to be combined into a FIP image named ``k3.fip``.::

  fiptool create --soc-fw bl31.bin \
    --tos-fw optee.bin \
    --nt-fw barebox-beagleplay.img \
    --blob uuid=9e8c2017-8b94-4e2b-a7b3-a0f88eabb8ae,file=\
    firmware/ti-linux-firmware/ti-dm/am62xx/ipc_echo_testb_mcu1_0_release_strip.xer5f k3.fip

USB DFU boot
------------
K3 Boards can be booted via USB DFU. When in USB boot mode the initial stage can be uploaded
using ``dfu-util``::

  dfu-util -D barebox-beagleplay-r5.img -a bootloader

This will start the initial stage which then expects the following stage which can
be uploaded with ``dfu-util`` as well::

  dfu-util -D k3.fip -a fip

eMMC boot
---------
K3 boards can boot from eMMC boot partitions. In this mode the ROM reads the tiboot3.bin
raw from the active boot partition. In this mode barebox expects the FIP image with the
following stages in the same boot partition at offset 1MiB. There is a barebox update handler
which takes a combined image consisting of tiboot3.bin and the FIP image to allow for a
failsafe update. This image can't be generated by the barebox build system though. It has
to be generated by a build system or manually::

  dd if=images/barebox-beagleplay-r5.img of=barebox-beagleplay-emmc.img
  dd if=k3.fip of=barebox-beagleplay-emmc.img bs=1024 seek=1024
