x86
===

Features
--------

barebox can act as a bootloader for PC based systems. In this case a special
binary layout will be created to be able to store it on some media the PC
BIOS can boot from. It can boot Linux kernels stored also on the same boot
media and be configured at runtime, with the possibility to store the changed
configuration on the boot media.

Restrictions
------------

Due to some BIOS and barebox restrictions the boot media must be
prepared in some special way:

  * barebox must be stored in the MBR (Master Boot Record) of the boot
    media. Currently its not possible to store and boot it in one of
    the partition sectors to use it as a second stage loader). This is
    no eternal restriction. It only needs further effort to add this
    feature.
  * barebox currently cannot run a chained boot loader. Also, this is
    no external restriction, only further effort needed.
  * barebox comes with limited filesystem support. There is currently
    no support for the most common and popular filesystems used in the
    \*NIX world. This restricts locations where to store a kernel and
    other runtime information
  * barebox must be stored to the first n sectors of the boot media.
    To ensure this does not collide with partitions on the boot media,
    the first partition must start at a sector behind the ones barebox
    occupies.
  * barebox handles its runtime configuration in a special way: It
    stores it in a binary way into some reserved sectors ("persistant
    storage").

Boot Preparations
-----------------

To store the barebox image to a boot media, it comes with the tool
setupmbr in the directory  scripts/setupmbr/ . To be able to use it on
the boot media of your choice, some preparations are required.

Keep Sectors free
-----------------

Build the barebox image and check its size. At least this amount of
sectors must be kept free after the MBR prior the first partition. Do this
simple calulation:

.. code-block:: none

  sectors = (size of barebox image + 511) / 512

To be able to store the runtime configuration, further free sectors are
required. Its up to you and your requirements, how large this persistant
storage must be. If you need 16 kiB for this purpose, you need to keep
additional 32 sectors free.

For this example we are reserving 300 sectors for the barebox image and
additionaly 32 sectors for the persistant storage. So, the first partition on
the boot media must start at sector 333 or later.

Run the  fdisk tool to setup such a partition table:

.. code-block:: none

  [jb@host]~> fdisk /dev/sda
  Command (m for help): p
  
  Disk /dev/sda: 20.7 MB, 212680704 bytes
  16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 406 cylinders
  Units = cylinders of 1008 * 512 = 516096 bytes
  
  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System

Change the used units to  sectors for easier handling.

.. code-block:: none

  Command (m for help): u
  Changing display/entry units to sectors
  
  Command (m for help): p

  Disk /dev/sda: 20.7 MB, 212680704 bytes
  16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 406 cylinders, total 409248 sectors
  Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
  
  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System

Now its possible to create the first partition with the required offset:

.. code-block:: none

  Command (m for help): n
  Command action
     e   extended
     p   primary partition (1-4)
  p
  Partition number (1-4): 1
  First sector (63-409247, default 63): 333
  Last sector or +size or +sizeM or +sizeK (333-409247, default 409247): +18M
  Command (m for help): p
  
  Disk /dev/sda: 20.7 MB, 212680704 bytes
  16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 406 cylinders, total 409248 sectors
  Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
  
          Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
  /dev/sda                   333       35489       17578+  83  Linux

That's all. Do whatever is required now with the new partition (formatting
and populating the root filesystem for example) to make it useful.

In the next step, barebox gets installed to this boot media::

  [jb@host]~> scripts/setupmbr/setupmbr -s 32 -m ./barebox -d /dev/sda

This command writes the barebox image file './barebox' onto the device
 /dev/sda.

The  -s option will keep the persistant storage sectors free and untouched
and set flags in the MBR to forward its existance, size and location to
barebox at runtime.  setupmbr also does not change the partition table.

The barebox image gets stored on the boot media like this::

  sector 0   1             33                              333
         |---|-------------|--------------- ~~~ ------------|--------------
        MBR    persistant              barebox                 first
                storage               main image              partition

If the  -s option is omitted, the "persistant storage" part simply does
not exist:

.. code-block:: none

  sector 0   1                              333
         |---|--------------- ~~~ ------------|--------------
        MBR               barebox                 first
                         main image              partition

**NOTE:** the ``setupmbr`` tool is also working on real image file than on device
nodes only. So, there is no restriction what kind of file will be
modified.

